Over the last couple of years wireless communication has become of such fundamental importance that a world without it is no longer imaginable for many of us. Beyond the established technologies such as mobile devices and WLAN, new approaches to wireless communication are emerging; one of them are called ad hoc sensor networks.

Ad hoc and sensor networks are formed by autonomous devices called nodes communicating via radio without any additional backbone infrastructure. If two nodes are not within mutual transmission range, they communicate through intermediate nodes relaying their message, that is the communication infrastructure is provided by the devices themselves. In view of the great potential of ad hoc and sensor networks in a variety of application scenarios such as disaster relief, monitoring and surveillance, or data gathering, it is not surprising that there has recently been a flurry of research activity in the field.

Because of high initial cost, nodes power issues and deployment overhead traditional sensor networks are not practical on some situations. And today's mobile devices are equipped with different kind of sensors and expensive hardware they can be used in place of sensor network. On the other hand most of the mobile devices are underutilized and ideal on most of the time. Therefore using this application mobile device can be converted into a sensor node without disturbing user activities. Google Android becomes the target platform for this application, since it is the most popular and widely used mobile device platform today.

This application is currently use only the magnetometer sensor. But it is expandable to work with all other sensors on mobile devices. Once a user of this sensor network request magnetometer reading of specific location this application send the request to the centralized server. Then it finds the most suitable mobile nodes to do this job and forward that request to those selected nodes. Mobile node collects that requested data and uploads them periodically to the centralized server where user have access to them. Since mobile device are spread all over the world it resolves the deployment difficulties. And usually mobile device comes with enough power sources which also has Internet connection which is used to connect to centralized server. This resolves most of common problems inherited with traditional sensor networks.