This is a mobile application for android devices to use your mobile as a sensor node. You can use this to collect date from mobile phones with available sensors on the device and other devices on currently on the network.

The main objective of this is to build a sensor network using mobile devices. In this context a mobile device will be just a sensor mote which can play the traditional sensor motes role. Therefore once the prototype application implemented with the specified requirements, it can be used to collect relevant sensor readings as for users criteria. Once user specified the location and the time frequency of the data needed,  application will upload this job to the server. Then server will try to find relevant devices to do that job. For this it will use the devices in build GPS sensor. When it finds a device it will send that job and device will take over the job and start recording data. First it will persist data into its local database. Then it will upload that data into the centralized server in batches. This will make use of devices data connection or the wifi network to upload data. But since it's not using throughout time, it saves most of the devices battery life.

Therefore this effort here is to use public mobile devices as sensor network. That is today's most of the mobile devices like phones, tablets, game consoles can collect data, persist  to databases, find location information and communicate over Internet. But it cannot do this task using factory mobile itself. It needs some sort of application to manage device communication, data transfers user jobs and everything. Because of that there is a need of a simple application and that is where android becomes the best platform to implement the application on.

